doc: add documentation regarding our api tooling (#45270)
nodejs/node: doc/contributing/node-api-tooling.md

> # Node.js's API Documentation Tooling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Node.js API Documentation Tooling
```

> Node.js API documentation are generated by an in-house tooling that resides within the `tools/doc` directory. This tooling is composed of a few different pieces:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Node.js API documentation are generated by an in-house tooling that
resides within the [tools/doc](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/main/tools/doc)
directory. This tooling is composed of the following:
```

> 1. The entry-point being `tools/doc/generate.js`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The entry-point is `tools/doc/generate.js`.
```

> 1. The tooling supports a few CLI arguments that is listed in a table below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The tooling supports the CLI arguments listed in the table below.
```

1. The tooling processes one file at a time.
1. The tooling uses a set of dependencies as described in the dependencies section.

> 1. The tooling parses the input file and does several transformations to the AST (Abstract Syntax Tree).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The tooling parses the input files and does several transformations
    to the AST (Abstract Syntax Tree).
```

1. The tooling generates a JSON output that contains the metadata and content of the Markdown file

> 1. The tooling generates a HTML output that contains a human-readable and ready to-view version of the file.

Author: Markdown automatically enumerates then :)

> These are the summarised steps of the API tooling. On the following sections we're diving deep what each part does, means and how it works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This documentation mainly serves the purpose of explaining the existing tooling processes, to allow an easier maintenance and evolution of the tooling. It is not meant to be a guide on how to write documentation for Node.js.

#### Vocabulary & Good to Know's

- AST means "Abstract Syntax Tree" and it is a data structure that represents the structure of a certain data format. In our case, the AST is a "graph" representation of the contents of the Markdown file.
- MDN means "Mozilla Developer Network" and it is a website that contains documentation for web technologies. We use it as a reference for the structure of the documentation.

> - "Stability Index" is an internal concept for the Stability of a given Node.js module. There's no concrete documentation of the "Stability Index" but it goes as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 The [Stability Index](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/docs/api/documentation.html#stability-index) is
 used to community the Stability of a given Node.js module.  The Stability levels include:
```

Author: Thanks! Didn't find a reference to them besides on the website.

  - Stability 1: Experimental. (This module is Experimental)
  - Stability 0: Deprecated. (This module is Deprecated)
  - Stability 2: Stable. (This module is Stable)

>   - Stability 3: Legacy. (This module is Legacy)

Author: Actually makes sense 👀

- Within Remark YAML snippets `<!-- something -->` are considered HTML nodes, that's because YAML isn't valid Markdown content. (Doesn't abide by the Markdown spec)

> - "New Tooling" references to the (written from-scratch) API build tooling introduced in `nodejs/nodejs.dev` whose might replace the current one from `nodejs/node`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- "New Tooling" references to the (written from-scratch) API build tooling introduced
in `nodejs/nodejs.dev` that might replace the current one from `nodejs/node`
```

## CLI Arguments

> The tooling requires a main `filename` argument and supports extra arguments (some also required) as shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tooling requires a `filename` argument and supports extra arguments (some also required) as shown below:
```

| Argument | Description | Required | Example |
| -------- | ----------- | -------- | ------- |
| `--node-version=` | The version of Node.js that is being documented. It defaults to `process.version` which is supplied by Node.js itself | No | v19.0.0 |
| `--output-directory=` | The directory where the output files will be generated. | Yes | `./out/api/` |

> | `--apilinks=` | This file is used as an index to specify the source file for eac module | No | `./out/doc/api/apilinks.json` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--apilinks=` | This file is used as an index to specify the source file for each module | No | `./out/doc/api/apilinks.json` |
```

| `--versions-file=` | This file is used to specify an index of all previous versions of Node.js. It is used for the Version Navigation on the API docs page. | No | `./out/previous-doc-versions.json` |

**Note.:** the `apilinks` parameter is generated by the Node.js build process (Makefile). And it is a file containing a JSON object.

> **Note.:** the `versions-file` parameter is generated by the Node.js build process (Makefile). And it is a file containing a JSON object.

Author: If we do not add a line separator, the two notes will be appended on each other.

> ### Basic Usage

Reviewer 2: We mighty also want to mention that it is often run using `make doc`? At least that is the way I remember using it.

```bash
npm run node-doc-generator ${filename}
```

## Dependencies and how the Tooling works internally

> The API tooling currently uses an-AST-alike library for processing the Input file as a Graph that supports easy modification and update of its nodes. [unified](https://github.com/unifiedjs/unified) is the current used library for the AST manipulation. Besides of `unified` we also use other libraries on top to help parsing the Markdown back and forth (Parsing from Markdown to X and from X to Markdown).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The API tooling uses an-AST-alike library called [unified](https://github.com/unifiedjs/unified) for processing the Input file as a Graph that supports easy modification and update of its nodes. In addition to `unified` we also use other libraries to help convert to and from Markdown.
```

> For this process we us [Remark](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark) for manipulating the Markdown part, and [Rehype](https://github.com/rehypejs/rehype) for Manipulating the HTML part.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to `unified` we also use [Remark](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark) for manipulating the Markdown part, and [Rehype](https://github.com/rehypejs/rehype)to help convert to and from Markdown.
```

- **`html.mjs`**: Responsible for transforming nodes by decorating them with visual artifacts for the HTML pages;
  - For example, transforming man or JS doc references to links correctly referring to respective External documentation.
- **`json.mjs`**: Responsible for generating the JSON output of the file;
  - It is mostly responsible for going through the whole Markdown file and generating a JSON object that represent the Metadata of a specific Module.
  - For example, for the FS module, it will generate an object with all its methods, events, classes and use several regular expressions (ReGeX) for extracting the information needed.
- **`generate.mjs`**: Main entry-point of doc generation for a specific file. It does e2e processing of a documentation file;
- **`allhtml.mjs`**: A script executed after all files are generated to create a single "all" page containing all the HTML documentation;
- **`alljson.mjs`**: A script executed after all files are generated to create a single "all" page containing all the JSON entries;

> - **`markdown.mjs`**: Basically contains one utility to replace Markdown links to work with the https://nodejs.org/api/ website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **`markdown.mjs`**: Contains utility to replace Markdown links to work with the https://nodejs.org/api/ website.
```

| `napiVersion` | It's used to describe in which version of the N-API this "module", "class" or "method" is available within Node.js | `napiVersion: 1` | `N-API version: 1` | Yes |

**Note.:** The `changes` field gets preprended with the `added`, `deprecated` and `removed` fields if they exist. The table only gets generated if a `changes` field exists. In the new tooling only "added" is prepended for now.

#### `buildToc`

**New Tooling:** This feature is natively available within the new tooling through MDX.

This method generates the Table of Contents based on all the Headings of the Markdown file.

#### `altDocs`

**New Tooling:** All features within this method are available within the new tooling.

This method generates a version picker for the current page to be shown in older versions of the API docs.

### `json.mjs`

This file is responsible for generating a JSON object that (supposedly) is used for IDE-Intellisense or for indexing of all the "methods", "classes", "modules", "events", "constants" and "globals" available within a certain Markdown file.

It attempts a best effort extraction of the data by using several regular expression patterns (ReGeX).

> **Note.:** JSON output generation is currently not supported by the new tooling, but it is in the pipeline for development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note:** JSON output generation is currently not supported by the new tooling, but it is in the pipeline for development.
```

> #### `jsonAPI`

Reviewer 2: A number of the headings are missing the prefix like `json.` in this case. Others have them. To be consistent we should include the prefix in all cases.

Author: Hmm, re-reading this comment, could you rephrase it? I'm not sure I got it 🙈

Reviewer 2: Re-reading I think I missed the levesl of the headers and its ok, so never mind.

> This method traverses all the AST Nodes by iterating each one of them and infers through ReGeX what kind of information each Node contains. It does then mutate the data and appends it to the final JSON object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This method traverses all the AST Nodes by iterating through each one of them and infers the kind of information each Node contains through ReGeX. Then it mutate the data and appends it to the final JSON object.
```
